tidb cloud: add a new doc of migrating and merging MySQL shards (#10021)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/migrate-sql-shards.md

---

> title: Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards to TiDB Cloud
> summary: Learn how to migrate and merge MySQL shards to TiDB Cloud.
> ---
> 
> # Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards to TiDB Cloud
> 
> This document describes how to migrate and merge MySQL shards from different partitions into TiDB Cloud. After full data migration, you can use TiDB Data Migration (DM) to perform incremental migration according to your business needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of Large Datasets to TiDB Cloud
summary: Learn how to migrate and merge MySQL shards of Large Datasets to TiDB Cloud.
---

# Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards to TiDB Cloud

This document describes how to migrate and merge a large MySQL dataset (for example, more than 1 TiB) from different partitions into TiDB Cloud. After full data migration, you can use TiDB Data Migration (DM) to perform incremental migration according to your business needs.
```

> This document describes how to migrate and merge a large MySQL dataset (for example, more than 1 TiB) from different partitions into TiDB Cloud. After full data migration, you can use TiDB Data Migration (DM) to perform incremental migration according to your business needs. "Large datasets" in this document usually mean data around one TiB or more.

Author: ```suggestion
This document describes how to migrate and merge a large MySQL dataset (for example, more than 1 TiB) from different partitions into TiDB Cloud. After full data migration, you can use TiDB Data Migration (DM) to perform incremental migration according to your business needs. 
```

The example in this document uses a complex shard migration task across multiple MySQL instances, and involves handling conflicts in auto-increment primary keys. The scenario in this example is also applicable to the scenario of merging data from different sharded tables within a single instance.

## Environment information in the example

This section describes the basic information of the upstream cluster, DM, and downstream cluster used in the example.

### Upstream cluster

The version of the upstream cluster is MySQL v5.7.18. The specific information is as follows:

- MySQL instance1:
    - schema `store_01` and table `[sale_01, sale_02]`
    - schema `store_02` and table `[sale_01, sale_02]`
- MySQL instance2:
    - schema `store_01`and table `[sale_01, sale_02]`
    - schema `store_02`and table `[sale_01, sale_02]`
- Table structure:

  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE sale_01 (
  id bigint(20) NOT NULL auto_increment,
  uid varchar(40) NOT NULL,
  sale_num bigint DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (id),
  UNIQUE KEY ind_uid (uid)
  );
  ```

### DM

The version of DM is v5.3.0. The details are as follows:

> ![DM Details](/media/tidb-cloud/shard-dm-details.png)

Author: OK, fixed as suggested.

### Step 1. Add the data source

1. Create a new data source file `dm-source1.yaml` to configure an upstream data source into DM. Add the following content:

    ```yaml
    # MySQL Configuration.
    source-id: "mysql-replica-01"
    # Specifies whether DM-worker pulls binlogs with GTID (Global Transaction Identifier).
    # The prerequisite is that you have already enabled GTID in the upstream MySQL.
    # If you have configured the upstream database service to switch master between different nodes automatically, you must enable GTID.
    enable-gtid: true
    from:
     host: "172.16.5.138"
     user: "lzy"
     password: "mZMkdjbRztSag6qEgoh8UkDY6X13H48="
     port: 3307
    ```

2. Create another new data source file `dm-source2.yaml`, and add the following content:

    ```yaml
    # MySQL Configuration.
    source-id: "mysql-replica-02"
    # Specifies whether DM-worker pulls binlogs with GTID (Global Transaction Identifier).
    # The prerequisite is that you have already enabled GTID in the upstream MySQL.
    # If you have configured the upstream database service to switch master between different nodes automatically, you must enable GTID.
    enable-gtid: true
    from:

>      host: "172.16.5.138"
>      user: "lzy"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     host: "192.168.10.102"
     user: "user02"
```

     password: "3O8fCPEnwO87cIal32bpO0AuTsJyBJ0="
     port: 3308
    ```

3. Run the following command in a terminal. Use `tiup dmctl` to load the first data source configuration into the DM cluster:

    ```shell
    [root@localhost ~]# tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} operate-source create dm-source1.yaml
    ```

    The parameters used in the command above are described as follows:

    |Parameter              |Description    |
    |-                      |-              |
    |`--master-addr`        |The `{advertise-addr}` of any DM-master node in the cluster where `dmctl` is to be connected. For example: 172.16.7.140:9261|
    |`operate-source create`|Loads the data source to the DM cluster.|

    The following is an example output:

    ```shell
    tiup is checking updates for component dmctl ...

>     Starting component `dmctl`: /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl --master-addr 172.16.7.140:9261 operate-source create dm-source1.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Starting component `dmctl`: /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl --master-addr 1192.168.11.110:9261 operate-source create dm-source1.yaml
```

    {
       "result": true,
       "msg": "",
       "sources": [
           {
               "result": true,
               "msg": "",
               "source": "mysql-replica-01",

>                "worker": "dm-172.16.7.154-9262"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               "worker": "dm-192.168.11.111-9262"
```

           }
       ]
    }

    ```

4. Run the following command in a terminal. Use `tiup dmctl` to load the second data source configuration into the DM cluster:

    ```shell

>     [root@localhost ~]# tiup dmctl --master-addr 172.16.7.140:9261 operate-source create dm-source2.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [root@localhost ~]# tiup dmctl --master-addr 192.168.11.110:9261 operate-source create dm-source2.yaml
```

    ```

    The following is an example output:

    ```shell
    tiup is checking updates for component dmctl ...

>     Starting component `dmctl`: /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl --master-addr 172.16.7.140:9261 operate-source create dm-source2.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Starting component `dmctl`: /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl --master-addr 192.168.11.110:9261 operate-source create dm-source2.yaml
```

    {
       "result": true,
       "msg": "",
       "sources": [
           {
               "result": true,
               "msg": "",
               "source": "mysql-replica-02",

>                "worker": "dm-172.16.7.214-9262"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               "worker": "dm-192.168.11.112-9262"
```

                    # # This is to ensure that when the table schema contains a primary key or unique index, DML statements can be imported repeatedly.
                    # # In the first minute of starting or resuming an incremental migration task, DM automatically enables the safe mode.
mysql-instances:
 - source-id: "mysql-replica-01"
   block-allow-list:  "bw-rule-1"
   route-rules: ["store-route-rule", "sale-route-rule"]
   filter-rules: ["store-filter-rule", "sale-filter-rule"]
   syncer-config-name: "global"
   meta:
     binlog-name: "mysql-bin.000002"
     binlog-pos: 246546174
     binlog-gtid: "b631bcad-bb10-11ec-9eee-fec83cf2b903:1-194801"
 - source-id: "mysql-replica-02"
   block-allow-list:  "bw-rule-1"
   route-rules: ["store-route-rule", "sale-route-rule"]
   filter-rules: ["store-filter-rule", "sale-filter-rule"]
   syncer-config-name: "global"
   meta:
     binlog-name: "mysql-bin.000001"
     binlog-pos: 1312659
     binlog-gtid: "cd21245e-bb10-11ec-ae16-fec83cf2b903:1-4036"

## ******** Configuration of the target TiDB cluster on TiDB Cloud **********
target-database:       # The target TiDB cluster on TiDB Cloud

>  host: "tidb.70593805.b973b556.ap-northeast-1.prod.aws.tidbcloud.com"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 host: "tidb.xxxxxxx.xxxxxxxxx.ap-northeast-1.prod.aws.tidbcloud.com"
```

 password: "oSWRLvR3F5GDIgm+l+9h3kB72VFWBUwzOw=="  # If the password is not empty, it is recommended to use a dmctl-encrypted cipher.

## ******** Function Configuration **********
routes:
 store-route-rule:
   schema-pattern: "store_*"
   target-schema: "store"
 sale-route-rule:
   schema-pattern: "store_*"
   table-pattern: "sale_*"
   target-schema: "store"
   target-table:  "sales"
filters:
 sale-filter-rule:
   schema-pattern: "store_*"
   table-pattern: "sale_*"
   events: ["truncate table", "drop table", "delete"]
   action: Ignore
 store-filter-rule:
   schema-pattern: "store_*"
   events: ["drop database"]
   action: Ignore
block-allow-list:
 bw-rule-1:
   do-dbs: ["store_*"]

## ******** Ignore check items **********
ignore-checking-items: ["table_schema","auto_increment_ID"]
```

For detailed task configurations, see [DM Task Configurations](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/task-configuration-file-full).

To run a data replication task smoothly, DM triggers a precheck automatically at the start of the task and returns the check results. DM starts the replication only after the precheck is passed. To trigger a precheck manually, run the check-task command:

```shell

> [root@localhost ~]# tiup dmctl --master-addr 172.16.7.140:9261 check-task dm-task.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[root@localhost ~]# tiup dmctl --master-addr 192.168.11.110:9261 check-task dm-task.yaml
```

```

The following is an example output:

```shell
tiup is checking updates for component dmctl ...

> Starting component `dmctl`: /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl --master-addr 172.16.7.140:9261 check-task dm-task.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting component `dmctl`: /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl --master-addr 192.168.11.110:9261 check-task dm-task.yaml
```

{
   "result": true,
   "msg": "check pass!!!"
}
```

### Step 3. Start the replication task

Use `tiup dmctl` to run the following command to start the data replication task:

```shell
[root@localhost ~]# tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr}  start-task dm-task.yaml
```

The parameters used in the command above are described as follows:

|Parameter              |Description    |
|-                      |-              |

> |`--master-addr`        |The `{advertise-addr}` of any DM-master node in the cluster where `dmctl` is to be connected. For example: 172.16.7.140:9261|

Author: ```suggestion
|`--master-addr`        |The `{advertise-addr}` of any DM-master node in the cluster where `dmctl` is to be connected. For example: 192.168.11.110:9261|
```

|`start-task`           |Starts the migration task.|

The following is an example output:

```shell
tiup is checking updates for component dmctl ...

> Starting component `dmctl`: /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl --master-addr 172.16.7.140:9261 start-task dm-task.yaml

Author: ```suggestion
Starting component `dmctl`: /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl --master-addr 192.168.11.110:9261 start-task dm-task.yaml
```

> Starting component `dmctl`: /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl --master-addr 172.16.7.140:9261 start-task dm-task.yaml
> 
> {
>    "result": true,
>    "msg": "",
>    "sources": [
>        {
>            "result": true,
>            "msg": "",
>            "source": "mysql-replica-01",
>            "worker": "dm-172.16.7.154-9262"
>        },
> 
>        {
>            "result": true,
>            "msg": "",
>            "source": "mysql-replica-02",
>            "worker": "dm-172.16.7.214-9262"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting component `dmctl`: /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl --master-addr 192.168.11.110:9261 start-task dm-task.yaml

{
   "result": true,
   "msg": "",
   "sources": [
       {
           "result": true,
           "msg": "",
           "source": "mysql-replica-01",
           "worker": "dm-192.168.11.111-9262"
       },

       {
           "result": true,
           "msg": "",
           "source": "mysql-replica-02",
           "worker": "dm-192.168.11.112-9262"
```

       }
   ],
   "checkResult": ""
}
```

If the task fails to start, check the prompt message and fix the configuration. After that, you can re-run the command above to start the task.

If you encounter any problem, refer to [DM error handling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dm-error-handling) and [DM FAQ](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dm-faq).

### Step 4. Check the replication task status

To learn whether the DM cluster has an ongoing replication task and view the task status, run the `query-status` command using `tiup dmctl`:

```shell

> [root@localhost ~]# tiup dmctl --master-addr 172.16.7.140:9261 query-status test-task1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[root@localhost ~]# tiup dmctl --master-addr 192.168.11.110:9261 query-status test-task1
```

```

The following is an example output:

```shell

> {
>    "result": true,
>    "msg": "",
>    "sources": [
>        {
>            "result": true,
>            "msg": "",
>            "source": "mysql-replica-01",
>            "worker": "dm-
> tiup is checking updates for component dmctl ...
> 
> Starting component `dmctl`: /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl --master-addr 172.16.7.140:9261 query-status test-task1
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

{
   "result": true,
   "msg": "",
   "sources": [
       {
           "result": true,
           "msg": "",
           "sourceStatus": {
               "source": "mysql-replica-01",

>                "worker": "dm-172.16.7.154-9262",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               "worker": "dm-192.168.11.111-9262",
```

                   "stage": "Running",
                   "unit": "Sync",
                   "result": null,
                   "unresolvedDDLLockID": "",
                   "sync": {
                       "totalEvents": "4048",
                       "totalTps": "3",
                       "recentTps": "3",
                       "masterBinlog": "(mysql-bin.000002, 246550002)",
                       "masterBinlogGtid": "b631bcad-bb10-11ec-9eee-fec83cf2b903:1-194813",
                       "syncerBinlog": "(mysql-bin.000002, 246550002)",
                       "syncerBinlogGtid": "b631bcad-bb10-11ec-9eee-fec83cf2b903:1-194813",
                       "blockingDDLs": [
                       ],
                       "unresolvedGroups": [
                       ],
                       "synced": true,
                       "binlogType": "remote",
                       "secondsBehindMaster": "0",
                       "blockDDLOwner": "",
                       "conflictMsg": ""
                   }
               }
           ]
       },
       {
           "result": true,
           "msg": "",
           "sourceStatus": {
               "source": "mysql-replica-02",

>                "worker": "dm-172.16.7.214-9262",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               "worker": "dm-192.168.11.112-9262",
```

---
title: Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of Large Datasets to TiDB Cloud
summary: Learn how to migrate and merge MySQL shards of Large Datasets to TiDB Cloud.
---

# Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of Large Datasets to TiDB Cloud

This document describes how to migrate and merge a large MySQL dataset (for example, more than 1 TiB) from different partitions into TiDB Cloud. After full data migration, you can use TiDB Data Migration (DM) to perform incremental migration according to your business needs.

> The example in this document uses a complex shard migration task across multiple MySQL instances, and involves handling conflicts in auto-increment primary keys. The scenario in this example is also applicable to the scenario of merging data from different sharded tables within a single MySQL instance.

Author: ok

> The example in this document uses a complex shard migration task across multiple MySQL instances, and involves handling conflicts in auto-increment primary keys. The scenario in this example is also applicable to the scenario of merging data from different sharded tables within a single MySQL instance.

Author: ```suggestion
The example in this document uses a complex shard migration task across multiple MySQL instances, and involves handling conflicts in auto-increment primary keys. The scenario in this example is also applicable to merging data from different sharded tables within a single MySQL instance.
```

## Environment information in the example

This section describes the basic information of the upstream cluster, DM, and downstream cluster used in the example.

### Upstream cluster

> The version of the upstream cluster is MySQL v5.7.18. The specific information is as follows:
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The environment information of the upstream cluster is as follows:

- MySQL version: MySQL v5.7.18
```

- MySQL instance1:
    - schema `store_01` and table `[sale_01, sale_02]`
    - schema `store_02` and table `[sale_01, sale_02]`
- MySQL instance2:
    - schema `store_01`and table `[sale_01, sale_02]`
    - schema `store_02`and table `[sale_01, sale_02]`
- Table structure:

  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE sale_01 (
  id bigint(20) NOT NULL auto_increment,
  uid varchar(40) NOT NULL,
  sale_num bigint DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (id),
  UNIQUE KEY ind_uid (uid)
  );
  ```

### DM

The version of DM is v5.3.0. You need to deploy TiDB DM manually. For detailed steps, see [Deploy a DM Cluster Using TiUP](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup).

### Downstream cluster

> The version of TiDB Cloud cluster is v6.0.0. The sharded schemas and tables are merged into the table `store.sales`.

Author: ```suggestion
The sharded schemas and tables are merged into the table `store.sales`.
```

> The version of TiDB Cloud cluster is v6.0.0. The sharded schemas and tables are merged into the table `store.sales`.

Author: Removed all version info to make this doc more general.

## Perform full data migration from MySQL to TiDB Cloud

The following is the procedure to migrate and merge full data of MySQL shards to TiDB Cloud.

In the following example, you only need to export the data in tables to **CSV** format.

### Step 1. Create directories in the Amazon S3 bucket

Create a first-level directory `store` (corresponding to the level of databases) and a second-level directory `sales` (corresponding to the level of tables) in the Amazon S3 bucket. In `sales`, create a third-level directory for each MySQL instance (corresponding to the level of MySQL instances). For example:

- Migrate the data in MySQL instance1 to `s3://dumpling-s3/store/sales/instance01/`
- Migrate the data in MySQL instance2 to `s3://dumpling-s3/store/sales/instance02/`

> If there are shards across multiple instances, you can create a first-level directory for each database and create a second-level directory for each sharded table. Then create a third-level directory for each MySQL instance for easy management. For example, if you want to migrate and merge tables `stock_N.product_N` from MySQL instance1 and MySQL instance2 into the table `stock.products` in TiDB Cloud, you can create the following directories:

Author: No, create one directory for one database or one table, not for all.

Create schemas in the TiDB Cloud cluster as follows:

```sql
mysql> CREATE DATABASE store;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.16 sec)
mysql> use store;
Database changed
```

In this example, the column IDs of `sale_01` and `sale_02` are auto-increment primary keys. Conflicts might occur when you merge sharded tables in the downstream database. Execute the following SQL statement to modify the PRIMARY KEY attribute of the ID column to normal index:

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE `sales` (
   ->   `id` bigint(20) NOT NULL ,
   ->   `uid` varchar(40) NOT NULL,
   ->   `sale_num` bigint DEFAULT NULL,
   ->   INDEX (`id`),
   ->   UNIQUE KEY `ind_uid` (`uid`)
   -> );
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.17 sec)
```

For more information about the solutions to solve such conflicts, see [Remove the PRIMARY KEY attribute from the column](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/v5.3/shard-merge-best-practices#remove-the-primary-key-attribute-from-the-column).

### Step 4. Configure Amazon S3 access

To configure Amazon S3 access, follow the instructions in [Configure Amazon S3 access](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md#configure-amazon-s3-access).

> This document uses the Amazon S3 as an example. The following example only lists key policy configurations. Replace the Amazon S3 path with your own values.

Author: Done

           "Effect": "Allow",
           "Action": [
               "s3:ListBucket",
               "s3:GetBucketLocation"
           ],

           "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::dumpling-s3"
       }
   ]
}
```

### Step 5. Perform the data import task

After configuring the IAM Role, you can perform the data import task on the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters).

1. Navigate to the **Active Clusters** page.

2. Find the area of your target cluster and click **Import Data** in the upper-right corner of the area. The **Data Import** page is displayed.

3. On the **Data Import** page, fill in the following information:

    - **Data Format**: select **CSV**.
    - **Location**: `AWS`
    - **Bucket URL**: fill in the bucket URL of your source data. You can use the second-level directory corresponding to tables, `s3://dumpling-s3/store/sales` in this example. You can import the data in all MySQL instances that will be merged into `store.sales` in one go.
    - **Role-ARN**: enter the Role-ARN you obtained.
    - **Target Cluster**: fill in the **Username** and **Password** fields.

    Confirm the compliance of cross region. Click **Next**.

> 4. Modify the file patterns and add the table filter rules if needed. If necessary, you can specify a [table filter](/table-filter.md#syntax). If you want to configure multiple filter rules, use `,` to separate the rules.

Author: @Frank945946 PTAL

> 4. Modify the file patterns and add the table filter rules if needed. If necessary, you can specify a [table filter](/table-filter.md#syntax). If you want to configure multiple filter rules, use `,` to separate the rules.

Author: 1 Yes they are the same. Revised this para to avoid confusion.
2 PM confirmed that there's no need to fill in the "Target table" field in File Pattern.

5. Click **Next**.

6. On the **Preview** page, confirm the import data and then click **Start Import**. For detailed information about modifying CSV configurations, see [Import CSV Files from Amazon S3 or GCS into TiDB Cloud](/tidb-cloud/import-csv-files.md).

TiDB Cloud starts validating whether it can access your data in the specified bucket URL. After the validation is completed and successful, the import task starts automatically. If you get the `AccessDenied` error, see [Troubleshoot Access Denied Errors during Data Import from S3](/tidb-cloud/troubleshoot-import-access-denied-error.md).

After the data is imported, if you want to remove the Amazon S3 access of TiDB Cloud, simply delete the policy that you added.

## Perform incremental data replication from MySQL to TiDB Cloud

> To replicate the data changes based on binlog from a specified position in the source database to TiDB Cloud, you can use TiDB Data Migration (DM) to perform incremental replication.

Author: OK. There's only one "source database". Changed it to "upstream cluster".

### Before you begin

TiDB Cloud does not provide any feature about incremental data replication yet. You need to deploy TiDB DM manually. For detailed steps, see [Deploy a DM Cluster Using TiUP](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup).

### Step 1. Add the data source

1. Create a new data source file `dm-source1.yaml` to configure an upstream data source into DM. Add the following content:

    ```yaml
    # MySQL Configuration.
    source-id: "mysql-replica-01"
    # Specifies whether DM-worker pulls binlogs with GTID (Global Transaction Identifier).
    # The prerequisite is that you have already enabled GTID in the upstream MySQL.
    # If you have configured the upstream database service to switch master between different nodes automatically, you must enable GTID.
    enable-gtid: true
    from:

>      host: "192.168.10.101"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     host: "${host}"           # For example: 192.168.10.101
```

Reviewer 2: Do we need to use a variable instead?

     user: "user01"

>      password: "mZMkdjbRztSag6qEgoh8UkDY6X13H48="

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     password: "${password}"   # Plaintext passwords are supported but not recommended. It is recommended that you use dmctl encrypt to encrypt plaintext passwords.
```

>      port: 3307

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     port: ${port}             # For example: 3307
```

    {
       "result": true,
       "msg": "",
       "sources": [
           {
               "result": true,
               "msg": "",
               "source": "mysql-replica-01",
               "worker": "dm-192.168.11.111-9262"
           }
       ]
    }

    ```

4. Run the following command in a terminal. Use `tiup dmctl` to load the second data source configuration into the DM cluster:

    ```shell
    [root@localhost ~]# tiup dmctl --master-addr 192.168.11.110:9261 operate-source create dm-source2.yaml
    ```

    The following is an example output:

    ```shell
    tiup is checking updates for component dmctl ...

    Starting component `dmctl`: /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl /root/.tiup/components/dmctl/v6.0.0/dmctl/dmctl --master-addr 192.168.11.110:9261 operate-source create dm-source2.yaml

    {
       "result": true,
       "msg": "",
       "sources": [
           {
               "result": true,
               "msg": "",
               "source": "mysql-replica-02",
               "worker": "dm-192.168.11.112-9262"
           }
       ]
    }
    ```

### Step 2. Create a replication task

> 1. Create a `test-task1.yaml` file for the replication task. Configure the incremental replication mode and the starting point of the data source in the file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a `test-task1.yaml` file for the replication task. 
```

Reviewer 2: "Configure the incremental replication mode and the starting point of the data source in the file." is covered in "4. Edit the task configuration file `test-task1`, to configure the incremental replication mode and replication starting point for each data source."

2. Find the starting point in the metadata file of MySQL instance1 exported by Dumpling. For example:

    ```toml
    Started dump at: 2022-05-25 10:16:26
    SHOW MASTER STATUS:
           Log: mysql-bin.000002
           Pos: 246546174
           GTID:b631bcad-bb10-11ec-9eee-fec83cf2b903:1-194801
    Finished dump at: 2022-05-25 10:16:27
    ```

3. Find the starting point in the metadata file of MySQL instance2 exported by Dumpling. For example:

    ```toml
    Started dump at: 2022-05-25 10:20:32
    SHOW MASTER STATUS:
           Log: mysql-bin.000001
           Pos: 1312659
           GTID:cd21245e-bb10-11ec-ae16-fec83cf2b903:1-4036
    Finished dump at: 2022-05-25 10:20:32
    ```

4. Edit the task configuration file `test-task1`, to configure the incremental replication mode and replication starting point for each data source.

> 

Reviewer 2: Do we need an indentation for the file content as follows?

Author: I prefer to leave it as is. Indentation will make a mess :S

## Environment information in the example

This section describes the basic information of the upstream cluster, DM, and downstream cluster used in the example.

### Upstream cluster

The environment information of the upstream cluster is as follows:

- MySQL version: MySQL v5.7.18
- MySQL instance1:
    - schema `store_01` and table `[sale_01, sale_02]`
    - schema `store_02` and table `[sale_01, sale_02]`
- MySQL instance 2:
    - schema `store_01`and table `[sale_01, sale_02]`
    - schema `store_02`and table `[sale_01, sale_02]`
- Table structure:

  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE sale_01 (
  id bigint(20) NOT NULL auto_increment,
  uid varchar(40) NOT NULL,
  sale_num bigint DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (id),
  UNIQUE KEY ind_uid (uid)
  );
  ```

### DM

The version of DM is v5.3.0. You need to deploy TiDB DM manually. For detailed steps, see [Deploy a DM Cluster Using TiUP](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup).

> 

Author: ```suggestion

### External storage

This document uses the Amazon S3 as an example.

```

### Downstream cluster

The sharded schemas and tables are merged into the table `store.sales`.

## Perform full data migration from MySQL to TiDB Cloud

The following is the procedure to migrate and merge full data of MySQL shards to TiDB Cloud.

In the following example, you only need to export the data in tables to **CSV** format.

### Step 1. Create directories in the Amazon S3 bucket

Create a first-level directory `store` (corresponding to the level of databases) and a second-level directory `sales` (corresponding to the level of tables) in the Amazon S3 bucket. In `sales`, create a third-level directory for each MySQL instance (corresponding to the level of MySQL instances). For example:

- Migrate the data in MySQL instance1 to `s3://dumpling-s3/store/sales/instance01/`
- Migrate the data in MySQL instance2 to `s3://dumpling-s3/store/sales/instance02/`

> If there are shards across multiple instances, you can create a first-level directory for each database and create a second-level directory for each sharded table. Then create a third-level directory for each MySQL instance for easy management. For example, if you want to migrate and merge tables `stock_N.product_N` from MySQL instance1 and MySQL instance2 into the table `stock.products` in TiDB Cloud, you can create the following directories:

Author: ```suggestion
If there are shards across multiple instances, you can create one first-level directory for each database and create one second-level directory for each sharded table. Then create a third-level directory for each MySQL instance for easy management. For example, if you want to migrate and merge tables `stock_N.product_N` from MySQL instance1 and MySQL instance2 into the table `stock.products` in TiDB Cloud, you can create the following directories:
```

- `s3://dumpling-s3/stock/products/instance01/`
- `s3://dumpling-s3/stock/products/instance02/`

### Step 2. Use Dumpling to export data to Amazon S3

For information about how to install Dumpling, see [Dumpling Introduction](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#dumpling-introduction).

When you use Dumpling to export data to Amazon S3, note the following:

- Enable binlog for upstream clusters.
- Choose the correct Amazon S3 directory and region.
- Choose the appropriate concurrency by configuring `-t` to minimize the impact on the upstream cluster, or export directly from the backup database. For more information about how to use this parameter, see [Option list of Dumpling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#option-list-of-dumpling).

> - Set appropriate values for `--filetype csv` and `--no-schemas`. For more information about how to use these parameters, see [Option list of Dumpling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#option-list-of-dumpling).

Author: ```suggestion
- Set appropriate values for `--filetype csv` and `--no-schemas`. For more information about how to use these parameters, see [Option list of Dumpling](dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling).
```

To export data to Amazon S3, do the following:

1. Get the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` of the Amazon S3 bucket.

    ```shell
    [root@localhost ~]# export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID={your_aws_access_key_id}
    [root@localhost ~]# export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY= {your_aws_secret_access_key}
    ```

2. Export data from MySQL instance1 to the `s3://dumpling-s3/store/sales/instance01/` directory in the Amazon S3 bucket.

    ```shell
    [root@localhost ~]# tiup dumpling -u {username} -p {password} -P {port} -h {mysql01-ip} -B store_01,store_02 -r 20000 --filetype csv --no-schemas -o "s3://dumpling-s3/store/sales/instance01/" --s3.region "ap-northeast-1"
    ```

>     For more information about the parameters, see [Option list of Dumpling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#option-list-of-dumpling).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information about the parameters, see [Option list of Dumpling](dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling).
```

3. Export data from MySQL instance2 to the `s3://dumpling-s3/store/sales/instance02/` directory in the Amazon S3 bucket.

    ```shell
    [root@localhost ~]# tiup dumpling -u {username} -p {password} -P {port} -h {mysql02-ip} -B store_01,store_02 -r 20000 --filetype csv --no-schemas -o "s3://dumpling-s3/store/sales/instance02/" --s3.region "ap-northeast-1"
    ```

> For detailed steps, see [Export data to Amazon S3 cloud storage](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#export-data-to-amazon-s3-cloud-storage).

Author: ```suggestion
For detailed steps, see [Export data to Amazon S3 cloud storage](dumpling-overview.md#export-data-to-amazon-s3-cloud-storage).
```

Create schemas in the TiDB Cloud cluster as follows:

```sql
mysql> CREATE DATABASE store;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.16 sec)
mysql> use store;
Database changed
```

In this example, the column IDs of the upstream tables `sale_01` and `sale_02` are auto-increment primary keys. Conflicts might occur when you merge sharded tables in the downstream database. Execute the following SQL statement to set the ID column as a normal index instead of a primary key:

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE `sales` (
   ->   `id` bigint(20) NOT NULL ,
   ->   `uid` varchar(40) NOT NULL,
   ->   `sale_num` bigint DEFAULT NULL,
   ->   INDEX (`id`),
   ->   UNIQUE KEY `ind_uid` (`uid`)
   -> );
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.17 sec)
```

For more information about the solutions to solve such conflicts, see [Remove the PRIMARY KEY attribute from the column](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/shard-merge-best-practices#remove-the-primary-key-attribute-from-the-column).

### Step 4. Configure Amazon S3 access

To configure Amazon S3 access, follow the instructions in [Configure Amazon S3 access](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md#configure-amazon-s3-access).

> This document uses the Amazon S3 as an example. The following example only lists key policy configurations. Replace the Amazon S3 path with your own values.

Author: ```suggestion
The following example only lists key policy configurations. Replace the Amazon S3 path with your own values.
```

- `s3://dumpling-s3/stock/products/instance01/`
- `s3://dumpling-s3/stock/products/instance02/`

### Step 2. Use Dumpling to export data to Amazon S3

For information about how to install Dumpling, see [Dumpling Introduction](dumpling-overview.md#dumpling-introduction).

When you use Dumpling to export data to Amazon S3, note the following:

- Enable binlog for upstream clusters.
- Choose the correct Amazon S3 directory and region.
- Choose the appropriate concurrency by configuring the `-t` option to minimize the impact on the upstream cluster, or export directly from the backup database. For more information about how to use this parameter, see [Option list of Dumpling](dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling).
- Set appropriate values for `--filetype csv` and `--no-schemas`. For more information about how to use these parameters, see [Option list of Dumpling](dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling).

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Name the CSV files as follows:

    - If a CSV file contains all data of an entire table, name the file in the `${db_name}.${table_name}.csv` format, which maps to the `${db_name}.${table_name}` table when you import the data.
    - If the data of one table is separated into multiple CSV files, append a numeric suffix to these CSV files. For example, `${db_name}.${table_name}.000001.csv` and `${db_name}.${table_name}.000002.csv`. The numeric suffixes can be inconsecutive but must be in ascending order. You also need to add extra zeros before the number to ensure all the suffixes are in the same length.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > If you cannot update the CSV filenames according to the preceding rules in some cases (for example, the CSV file links are also used by your other programs), you can keep the filenames unchanged and use the **Custom Pattern** in [Step 4](#step-4-import-csv-files-to-tidb-cloud) to import your source data to a single target table.

```

           "Action": [
               "s3:ListBucket",
               "s3:GetBucketLocation"
           ],

           "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::dumpling-s3"
       }
   ]
}
```

### Step 5. Perform the data import task

After configuring the Amazon S3 access, you can perform the data import task in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters).

1. Navigate to the **Active Clusters** page for your project.

2. Locate your target cluster and click **Import Data** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area. The **Data Import** page is displayed.

3. On the **Data Import** page, fill in the following information:

    - **Data Format**: select **CSV**.
    - **Location**: `AWS`
    - **Bucket URL**: fill in the bucket URL of your source data. You can use the second-level directory corresponding to tables, `s3://dumpling-s3/store/sales` in this example, so that TiDB Cloud can import and merge the data in all MySQL instances into `store.sales` in one go.
    - **Role-ARN**: enter the Role-ARN you obtained.
    - **Target Cluster**: fill in the **Username** and **Password** fields.

    Confirm the compliance of cross region. Click **Next**.

> 4. Modify the file patterns and add the table filter rules if needed. If necessary, you can specify a [table filter](/table-filter.md#syntax). If you want to configure multiple filter rules, use `,` to separate the rules.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Modify the file patterns and add the table filter rules if needed. 
```

5. Click **Next**.

6. On the **Preview** page, confirm the import configurations and then click **Start Import**. For detailed information about modifying CSV configurations, see [Import CSV Files from Amazon S3 or GCS into TiDB Cloud](/tidb-cloud/import-csv-files.md).

TiDB Cloud starts validating whether it can access your data in the specified bucket URL. After the validation is completed and successful, the import task starts automatically. If you get the `AccessDenied` error, see [Troubleshoot Access Denied Errors during Data Import from S3](/tidb-cloud/troubleshoot-import-access-denied-error.md).

After the data is imported, if you want to remove the Amazon S3 access of TiDB Cloud, simply delete the policy that you added.

## Perform incremental data replication from MySQL to TiDB Cloud

> To replicate the data changes based on binlog from a specified position in the source database to TiDB Cloud, you can use TiDB Data Migration (DM) to perform incremental replication.

Author: ```suggestion
To replicate the data changes based on binlog from a specified position in the upstream cluster to TiDB Cloud, you can use TiDB Data Migration (DM) to perform incremental replication.
```

---
title: Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of Large Datasets to TiDB Cloud

> summary: Learn how to migrate and merge MySQL shards of Large Datasets to TiDB Cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to migrate and merge MySQL shards of large datasets to TiDB Cloud.
```

---

# Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of Large Datasets to TiDB Cloud

This document describes how to migrate and merge a large MySQL dataset (for example, more than 1 TiB) from different partitions into TiDB Cloud. After full data migration, you can use [TiDB Data Migration (DM)](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dm-overview) to perform incremental migration according to your business needs.

The example in this document uses a complex shard migration task across multiple MySQL instances, and involves handling conflicts in auto-increment primary keys. The scenario in this example is also applicable to merging data from different sharded tables within a single MySQL instance.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

> **Note:**
>
>  This document uses CSV files as an example. 

```

If there are shards across multiple instances, you can create one first-level directory for each database and create one second-level directory for each sharded table. Then create a third-level directory for each MySQL instance for easy management. For example, if you want to migrate and merge tables `stock_N.product_N` from MySQL instance1 and MySQL instance2 into the table `stock.products` in TiDB Cloud, you can create the following directories:

- `s3://dumpling-s3/stock/products/instance01/`
- `s3://dumpling-s3/stock/products/instance02/`

### Step 2. Use Dumpling to export data to Amazon S3

For information about how to install Dumpling, see [Dumpling Introduction](/dumpling-overview.md#dumpling-introduction).

When you use Dumpling to export data to Amazon S3, note the following:

- Enable binlog for upstream clusters.
- Choose the correct Amazon S3 directory and region.
- Choose the appropriate concurrency by configuring the `-t` option to minimize the impact on the upstream cluster, or export directly from the backup database. For more information about how to use this parameter, see [Option list of Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling).

> - Set appropriate values for `--filetype csv` and `--no-schemas`. For more information about how to use these parameters, see [Option list of Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling).

Author: ```suggestion
- This document uses CSV files as an example. Set appropriate values for `--filetype csv` and `--no-schemas`. For more information about how to use these parameters, see [Option list of Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling).
```

Name the CSV files as follows:

> - If a CSV file contains all data of an entire table, name the file in the `${db_name}.${table_name}.csv` format, which maps to the `${db_name}.${table_name}` table when you import the data.

Author: Not applicable. Deleted.

    ```

For detailed steps, see [Export data to Amazon S3 cloud storage](/dumpling-overview.md#export-data-to-amazon-s3-cloud-storage).

### Step 3. Create schemas in TiDB Cloud cluster

Create schemas in the TiDB Cloud cluster as follows:

```sql
mysql> CREATE DATABASE store;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.16 sec)
mysql> use store;
Database changed
```

In this example, the column IDs of the upstream tables `sale_01` and `sale_02` are auto-increment primary keys. Conflicts might occur when you merge sharded tables in the downstream database. Execute the following SQL statement to set the ID column as a normal index instead of a primary key:

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE `sales` (
   ->   `id` bigint(20) NOT NULL ,
   ->   `uid` varchar(40) NOT NULL,
   ->   `sale_num` bigint DEFAULT NULL,
   ->   INDEX (`id`),
   ->   UNIQUE KEY `ind_uid` (`uid`)
   -> );
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.17 sec)
```

For more information about the solutions to solve such conflicts, see [Remove the PRIMARY KEY attribute from the column](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/shard-merge-best-practices#remove-the-primary-key-attribute-from-the-column).

### Step 4. Configure Amazon S3 access

> To configure Amazon S3 access, follow the instructions in [Configure Amazon S3 access](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md#configure-amazon-s3-access).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow the instructions in [Configure Amazon S3 access](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md#configure-amazon-s3-access) to get the role ARN of the source data bucket.
```

           "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::dumpling-s3"
       }
   ]
}
```

### Step 5. Perform the data import task

After configuring the Amazon S3 access, you can perform the data import task in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters).

1. Navigate to the **Active Clusters** page for your project.

2. In the TiDB Cloud Admin console, choose a target project and a target cluster deployed on the Google Cloud Platform. Then click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area and select **Import Data**.

3. On the **Data Import** page, fill in the following information:

    - **Data Format**: select **CSV**.
    - **Location**: `AWS`
    - **Bucket URL**: fill in the bucket URL of your source data. You can use the second-level directory corresponding to tables, `s3://dumpling-s3/store/sales` in this example, so that TiDB Cloud can import and merge the data in all MySQL instances into `store.sales` in one go.
    - **Role-ARN**: enter the Role-ARN you obtained.
    - **Target Cluster**: shows the cluster name and the region name.

    If the location of the bucket is different from your cluster, confirm the compliance of cross region. Click **Next**.

>     TiDB Cloud starts validating whether it can access your data in the specified bucket URL. If you get the `AccessDenied` error, see [Troubleshoot Access Denied Errors during Data Import from S3](/tidb-cloud/troubleshoot-import-access-denied-error.md).

Author: ```suggestion
    TiDB Cloud starts validating whether it can access your data in the specified bucket URL. After validation, TiDB Cloud tries to scan all the files in the data source using the default file naming pattern, and returns a scan summary result on the left side of the next page. If you get the `AccessDenied` error, see [Troubleshoot Access Denied Errors during Data Import from S3](/tidb-cloud/troubleshoot-import-access-denied-error.md).
```

    - **Data Format**: select **CSV**.
    - **Location**: `AWS`
    - **Bucket URL**: fill in the bucket URL of your source data. You can use the second-level directory corresponding to tables, `s3://dumpling-s3/store/sales` in this example, so that TiDB Cloud can import and merge the data in all MySQL instances into `store.sales` in one go.
    - **Role-ARN**: enter the Role-ARN you obtained.
    - **Target Cluster**: shows the cluster name and the region name.

    If the location of the bucket is different from your cluster, confirm the compliance of cross region. Click **Next**.

    TiDB Cloud starts validating whether it can access your data in the specified bucket URL. After validation, TiDB Cloud tries to scan all the files in the data source using the default file naming pattern, and returns a scan summary result on the left side of the next page. If you get the `AccessDenied` error, see [Troubleshoot Access Denied Errors during Data Import from S3](/tidb-cloud/troubleshoot-import-access-denied-error.md).

4. Modify the file patterns and add the table filter rules if needed.

>     - **File Pattern**: modify the file pattern if you want to import CSV files whose filenames match a certain pattern to a single target table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **File Pattern**: modify the file pattern if you want to import CSV files whose filenames match a certain pattern to a single target table.

```

            - `my-data?.csv`: all CSV files starting with `my-data` and one character (such as `my-data1.csv` and `my-data2.csv`) will be imported into the same target table.
            - `my-data*.csv`: all CSV files starting with `my-data` will be imported into the same target table.

        - **Target table name**: enter the name of the target table in TiDB Cloud, which must be in the `${db_name}.${table_name}` format. For example, `mydb.mytable`. Note that this field only accepts one specific table name, so wildcards are not supported.

>     - **Table Filter**: If you want to filter which tables to be imported, you can specify one or more table filters in this field, separated by `,`.

Author: ```suggestion
    - **Table Filter**: If you want to filter which tables to be imported, you can specify one or more table filter rules in this field.
```

>         For example:
> 
>         - `db01.*`: all tables in the `db01` database will be imported.
>         - `db01.table01*,db01.table02*`: all tables starting with `table01` and `table02` in the `db01` database will be imported.
>         - `!db02.*`: except the tables in the `db02` database, all other tables will be imported. `!` is used to exclude tables that do not need to be imported.
>         - `*.*` : all tables will be imported.
> 
>         For more information, see [table filter snytax](/table-filter.md#syntax).
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

5. Click **Next**.

> 6. On the **Preview** page, check and update the CSV specific configurations, including separator, delimiter, header, not-null, null, backslash-escape, and trim-last-separator. You can click the **Click here to edit csv configuration** link in the upper-right corner of the preview table to change the CSV configurations.

Author: ```suggestion
6. On the **Preview** page, you can have a preview of the data, and click the **Click here to edit csv configuration** link to check and update the CSV-specific configurations, including separator, delimiter, header, not-null, null, backslash-escape, and trim-last-separator.
```

>     - **Table Filter**: If you want to filter which tables to be imported, you can specify one or more table filter rules in this field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Table Filter**: If you want to filter which tables to be imported, you can specify one or more [table filter](/table-filter.md#syntax) rules in this area.
```

- `s3://dumpling-s3/stock/products/instance01/`
- `s3://dumpling-s3/stock/products/instance02/`

### Step 2. Use Dumpling to export data to Amazon S3

For information about how to install Dumpling, see [Dumpling Introduction](/dumpling-overview.md#dumpling-introduction).

When you use Dumpling to export data to Amazon S3, note the following:

- Enable binlog for upstream clusters.
- Choose the correct Amazon S3 directory and region.
- Choose the appropriate concurrency by configuring the `-t` option to minimize the impact on the upstream cluster, or export directly from the backup database. For more information about how to use this parameter, see [Option list of Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling).
- Set appropriate values for `--filetype csv` and `--no-schemas`. For more information about how to use these parameters, see [Option list of Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling).

Name the CSV files as follows:

> - If a CSV file contains all data of an entire table, name the file in the `${db_name}.${table_name}.csv` format, which maps to the `${db_name}.${table_name}` table when you import the data.

Author: ```suggestion
```
